So in the last lesson we learn how to consume our context API.
But how do we dynamically set values in the new context that we've created.
Well I'm going to show you how we can do that but we got to first make a new context to replace our
current user reducer that stores the value of our user that we pull in from our fire store so instead
of using these set current user dispatch action and then our current user reducer we are going to use
the new context API to create a current user context so just like last time we are going to make a new
context folder called current user because what is stored is the context of our current user so we'll
make a create user context Dutch J.S. if you remember we import in create context from react and then
we just set this concept.
Current user context equal to create context and then we'll have a default value of undefined because
there's no initial value for our user so we're just gonna set it on fire and then we're gonna export
this out so we set to undefined in the same way that we might have set to null or undefined inside of
our reducer whenever we set initial value that we knew that value would probably be an object because
we know our current user is an object of some kind.
So now in order for us to actually set this value we need to figure out where inside of our component
we're going to get access to it and access to that will of course be in the app G.S. because this is
where we perform the actual fetch itself
one caveat that I must mention about setting this value is that just like we saw in our previous lesson
in our collection component before we use the use context took we had to leverage our collection context
dot consumer component in order to consume it we actually have to now use that other one that I was
high about the provider component and unlike used context the hook we don't have access to a hook that
allows us to make that easier which means that we actually have the code in a specific way when we want
to pass that value around and update the context value.
So let me show you what we're gonna do.
First I'm going to import in our new current user content.
So here you can import in that current user context from context slash current user slash current user
context
the place that we are going to set.
This value is also the place where we're probably going to leverage it.
So we can really put this anywhere really.
But if you remember our app represents the highest level of our component tree so we got to think about
where it is inside of this tree that needs access to this value.
Now the reason why we do this is because you remember that I mentioned that this provider is going to
be a actual component while this injects the context into the tree at that level meaning that let's
say for example we know that the only other place where we use our current user is in our head our component
if it's inside of our head or component.
That means that we need to wrap this new provider around that head or component at the very least because
our header is going to consume this current user context inside of it if we wrap this somewhere else
like let's say we put this current user context around this right instead we actually would not be able
to access the dynamically changed values of our context from this header if we say inside of a header
used a context dot consumer somewhere inside of here dot consumer
if we had this somewhere here we wouldn't actually be able to access the dynamic value.
We would only ever be able to access the initial value.
The reason for this is because the way that the context API works is it goes up the tree right from
where it currently is.
The actual consumer itself so inside of the header component right whenever we wrap it it will go up
the tree of components until it finds the same context.
So in our case the current user context and it will look for a provider if there is no provider that
has supplied a new value then it will just use the initial state that we instantiated our current user
context with.
So that's one very important thing to keep in mind about context API.
So because we know that our header is probably going to be the only place that uses the current user
we are just going to wrap this header component.
Let's say we did this but not consumer it is actually provider here.
What we're going to do is we are going to now make sure to set the value and the way we do it is we
all will leverage our render.
So how we're going to do that is we need to now switch over to leveraging our component state because
our component state is going to be the way that we store this current user object so we're going to
make a constructor call our super and set this dot state equals our current user which starts off as
no
we're going to say is that when ever this component did mount instantiate instantiated right and then
we subscribe to our off on off state changed when ever we actually get the snapshot of the object we
want to store as our current user instead of calling set current user like we did before we are now
just going to call this dot set state and we're going to set state where are current user object is
equal to this object we're also going to make sure that this dot sets state when our user logs out.
So as you remember when a user logs out we get null.
Right.
We also want to set the current user equal to that null value as well.
So we've pretty much just replaced our reducer that was storing our secret user over to using local
state.
Now the reason we do this is because this value that changes here is what we're going to pass into our
context.
So here we're gonna say value using the value key as this dot state DOT current user and now when ever
this state of current user changes it will pass that value into the provider and any consumer that is
consuming this value will re render whenever this value changes because that's the nature of how context
API updates are react application so by doing this we now are leveraging our local state again.
And we actually have to do this because in order for us to actually make sure that we're keeping track
of whatever is happening inside of this component of course we've got to do it inside the component
as well so that's just the one caveat.
This is actually one of the issues some people have with context API is that you have to re leverage
component state in order to pass that value around inside of your application.
But this is just because the actual paradigm of the context API is a little different from the paradigm
of our products that we're used to using context API is kind of just an easier way for you to pass around
the value of this thing that you want to store into components that are nested deep because our app
component is still a component that will be the one that mounts first right is at the highest level.
So it holds access to actual user information right.
So just like before when we had to think about where do we want to make sure that we put the code that
fetches the data we have to think about that again because this is going to be the place where we actually
put the provider that will wrap the rest of the component treat that needs access to that value that
we want to pass around because as you remember the problem we're trying to solve is prop drilling we're
solving prop drilling here.
So for that reason this is just how we have to do it.
We have to leverage the component state of the component at the level that has access to the actual
value that we want to dynamically update our context with.
We also need to switch this props over to leveraging this dot state because of course we're not getting
it from state anymore right.
So now we've pretty much switched over this component to leveraging our context the
so let's get rid of of course what we had before which was our redux findings.
So let's just remove this connect
so now we're storing our current user locally but we actually need to consume it from our header compound
so the place that consumes it inside of our head our component is this section of the code right here
right where we store this current user.
Well now it's actually really easy because all we need to do is bring in our use context hook and we'll
bring in that current user context that we just made
current user context from context current user per user context and now we just gotta make sure that
we use that new hook right.
So we convert our default return from this function over instead to a explicit return because we need
to pull off the current user from our current user context for user content we're no longer pulling
this in right from a selector.
So now current user is being passed in like this and that's it.
If we save now let's actually also get rid of this map state props.
Actually we still might leverage the hidden.
So you know what let's just get rid of this for right.
Because we're not using these select current user selector anymore right.
We're using our context we're sending current user code still looks the exact same if we look now we
see that where we have access to our sign and user.
Right.
If I click sign out as we see everything still works we sign back in our office still triggering inside
of our app J.S. we're storing the user right on the local state passing it into our provider and then
our provider updates on the actual context.
And then the context will propagate that current user change into any places that's consuming the context
so I know it's a lot of words for something that actually seem pretty simple but the only reason for
that is just because there are these caveats around using it that I just want to highlight because there
are certain issues that will arise if you don't think about it.
So the main thing is just how you're going to structure the hierarchy of your application in terms of
where you're going to put your providers and where you're going to put your consumers.
So with that.
That's it.
We are now leveraging our current user inside of this header context.